Improve Nuxt doc (#481)
CleverCloud/documentation: content/guides/nuxt.md

draft: false
---

{{< hextra/hero-subtitle >}}
  Nuxt is a powerful and versatile web framework for building modern web applications, offering a seamless development experience with server-side rendering, static site generation, and hybrid capabilities. Learn in this guide how to deploy a Nuxt site on Clever Cloud.
{{< /hextra/hero-subtitle >}}

Clever Cloud supports deploying both [fully static and on-demand rendered](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/concepts/rendering) Nuxt 3 projects:   

- The `static` rendering mode is ideal for most content-oriented websites where you don't need per-visitor server-side customization. Consider using a [Static runtime](/doc/applications/static/) when using this mode, with the site generation handled in a post-build hook. Learn more about [static hosting with Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/deployment#static-hosting). 

> - The `server` or `hybrid` rendering modes are suited for dynamic applications requiring server-side customization or a mix of static and server-rendered pages. For these modes, consider using a [Node.js runtime](/doc/applications/javascript/nodejs/). Learn more about [Node.js hosting with Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/deployment#nodejs-server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `server` or `hybrid` rendering modes are optimal for dynamic applications requiring server-side customization or a mix of static and server-rendered pages. For these modes, consider using a [Node.js runtime](/doc/applications/javascript/nodejs/). Learn more about [Node.js hosting with Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/deployment#nodejs-server).
```

clever env set CC_POST_BUILD_HOOK "npx nuxi generate"
```

## Deploy a server Nuxt site

To deploy your Nuxt project to Clever Cloud, you need to **create a new application**. 

### Create a Node.js application

> You can create an application in our [Console](https://console.clever-cloud.com) or through [Clever Tools](https://github.com/CleverCloud/clever-tools/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create an application from the [Console](https://console.clever-cloud.com) or through [Clever Tools](https://github.com/CleverCloud/clever-tools/):
```

```bash
npm i -g clever-tools
clever login

cd myStaticApp
clever create -t node mNuxtApp
```

> To deploy on Clever Cloud, your local folder need to be a git repository (if not, `git init`) linked to an application. If you already have an application on Clever Cloud and want to link it to the current local folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy on Clever Cloud, your local folder needs to be a git repository (if not, `git init`) linked to an application. If you already have an application on Clever Cloud and want to link it to the current local folder:
```

```bash
clever link your_app_name_or_ID
```

### Configure environment variables

> Next, we configure the application with a medium build instance. The host instance is XS, enough for a simple website. As Clever Cloud is based on standards, you only need to define a few variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, configure the application with a medium build instance. The host instance is XS, enough for a simple website. As Clever Cloud uses industry standards, you only need to define a few variables:
```

```bash
clever scale --build-flavor M
clever scale --flavor xs

> clever env set CC_NODE_VERSION "20"

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The node version is defined in `package.json` not as an environment variable.

Also, does the run command contains the build action? If not, the user have to specify the build action, since the runtime will run an install and the `start` scripts, but not the build one.
